this vid oh you like your peanut butter
don't you Martin there oh is it good bye
hey friends did you know that climate
change is definitely real and definitely
affected by human action I had to ask
because well some people deny that
that's happening and this videos about
them now I'm not here to pretend that
there's a real debate in science about
whether co2 affects global temperatures
or whether humans have a hand in it the
science is settled and the deniers are
wrong oh yeah call them deniers to make
them look bad that's a classic straw man
argument they're not denying climate
change they're just skeptical that it's
happening see it's actually very smart
when you put it that way
and look how this degenerate refuses to
engage in reasonable debate with people
who disagree with him that's not
rational at all how can the issue be
settled if you haven't debunked your
opponent's points look mate I hate to be
dogmatic but I think any reasonable
analysis of climate deniers has to
contend with the extreme deficit of
actual facts on the side of people who
claim to be the ones who know the facts
better than the actual researchers when
someone specifically positions
themselves as pro science and fetishizes
the idea of reason the fact they're
being unreasonable is something that
needs to be brought up we're going to
get into it but if someone's evidence is
so poor that even me a gaming youtuber
who got peanut butter in his ear when he
was setting up the first shot for this
video can see the holes in it then
something's really gone wrong here so in
this video we're gonna look at some
prominent climate deniers what they have
to say why what they say is clearly
wrong why they seem to believe it anyway
how people get to be climate deniers and
what we can do to have make there be
less of the nailed it I suppose one
thing you could do is just let the ice
sheets melt I mean the problem kind of
go away most of them drowned oh I'm
dying oh I guess I was wrong
oops
we're gonna die
[Music]
now climate denialism doesn't come in
just one flavor
no like ogres the issue has layers and
unlike ogres climate deniers are not all
stars although the ice they skate is
getting pretty thin and the waters
getting warm so they might as well swim
smashmouth all-star was about climate
change changed my mind
deniers range from claiming the climate
isn't actually changing at all to
admitting that the climate changes but
that humans don't have an effect and
it's probably just normal the things
have got so warm lately I'm sure it will
go back to normal soon too claiming that
co2 doesn't really have an effect on the
climate - saying that even if it does
it's actually good for us since plants
need co2 - saying it's real but it's not
that bad and scientists are exaggerating
- saying well look I'm confused a lot of
people are saying a lot of different
things so I guess it's still up for
debate and we shouldn't do anything ah
that's great you see even cowards have a
place in denialism if you haven't heard
of ben shapiro then your youtube
recommendations bar is glitched out
shapiro is a conservative commentator
who's very popular with people who
already agree with him and he's really
good at winning debates with teenagers
who haven't finished university and
don't have all the media training he has
he was editor at large of Breitbart for
four years and he's written 10 books
about how it's the Left fault that
conservatism keeps making things worse
for everyone he's a true intellectual
gymnast the kind that can write tweets -
crying when the left talk about how
they're on the right side of history and
then publish an entire book called the
right side of history here he is dipping
his webbed flippers into the pool of
climate change with his signature
Shapiro intellect so let's say let's say
for the sake of argument that all of the
water levels around the world rise by 5
let's say 5 feet over the next hundred
years say 10 feet by the next hundred
years and it puts all the low-lying
areas on the coast underwater right
would you let's say all of that happens
you think that people aren't going to
just sell their homes and move
just one small problem
sell the houses to who Ben [__]
Aquaman it was watching this talk by
Shapiro that got me wanting to look at
and analyze climate denial in more
detail because this absolute genius
brained idea that everyone affected by
things like floods can just sell their
homes to people who would love to buy a
flooding house apparently and move
somewhere else well it begs a lot of
questions about how these people think
how are things reached a point where
someone thinks they can get away with
saying something this ridiculous in
front of an audience of people and how
if things reach the point where some
people in that audience won't recognize
it for the obvious ignorant [__]
that it is this led me down a particular
hole of discovery I realized that
climate deniers aren't just wrong
they're obviously wrong in very clear
ways and that makes the whole thing so
much more interesting how does this work
if it's so paper-thin
take for example steven crowder steven
crowder is a conservative political
commentator and wikipedia tells me he's
a comedian which I'm glad they mentioned
or I wouldn't have noticed
Crowder's YouTube channel is his special
place to wax lyrical about topical
conservative issues he's a rational
thinker who doesn't play by anyone's
rules and we'll follow truth wherever it
leads although it always seems to lead
to whatever he wanted to believe in the
first place I'm sure it's just a
coincidence that he never has to change
his mind about anything Crowder has a
big beef with Bill Nye as we've seen in
the past but that's a byproduct of his
more general climate denial of course
Crowder denies being a climate denier
Crowder positions himself as a climate
realist who acknowledges that the
climate has changed and is changing it's
just not changing in the way that all
the scientists say it does in other
words he's denying the science but in
denial about denying the science his
most popular video on the topic has all
two million views and claims to debunk
the top five climate change myths we'll
get to his others later regarding this
one first however he's wrong this video
and everything in it has been debunked
repeatedly and ethically by many people
online on the Internet already so I'm
not gonna really do that too much okay
you've noticed it by now if there's no
avoiding it when I was hitting the wall
with the axe I got a little bit of
debris on my mouth and I didn't notice
it for a couple takes just try not to
look at it and we'll all get through it
together
what I want to draw attention to here is
how blatantly wrong it is to anyone
who's willing to do even a smidgen of
research one of the myths he tries to
debunk is that the ice sheets are
melting number two you've heard this one
everywhere the ice sheets are melting if
the ice sheets were melting it would
cause an increase in sea levels as all
of the water in the ice makes his way
into the oceans it would also increase
co2 levels because co2 is stored in ice
and then escapes when it melts it would
affect the albedo of the planet its
ability to reflect the heat and light of
the Sun it wouldn't just make things
worse on its own it would exacerbate the
process by which things are getting
worse but don't worry Steven crowd has
done a picosecond of googling and he's
decided that they're not melting in fact
they're growing the Antarctic ice sheets
are actually growing by billions of tons
per year does that come to me from
climate change denial / flat-earthers
calm
no how about NASA according to the new
analysis of satellite data the Antarctic
Ice Sheet showed a net gain of a hundred
and twelve billion tons of ice per year
from 1992 to 2001 oh [__] he's using
facts and logic sound the alarms battle
stations prepare for impacts actually
one question when you said ice sheets
that's a plural sound
could it be that there's another ice
sheet say in Greenland where the
opposite is true and it's melting really
quickly and maybe there's a net loss of
ice I wonder what you'll say abut he
doesn't bring it up he doesn't his
pretend Greenland doesn't exist
according to the European environmental
agency between the years of 2002 to 2011
Greenland lost an average of 215 billion
tons of ice per year then in 2012 it
lost 500 billion so if you do some quick
math there you'll probably notice that
even if Antarctica is growing at the
rate Crowder says it is which we'll get
back to that later over a hundred
billion tonnes of ice per year is now
water in our oceans which appear to be
rising for some inexplicable reason look
if you live in Venice just sell your
house to the Innsmouth people and move
away it's fine
it's sold there's also the slightly
deeper problem that Crowder's point
about the Antarctic ice sheets isn't
actually true either the article that he
posts up links to a study in the journal
of Glaciology entitled mass gains of the
Antarctic Ice Sheet exceed losses note
that it says Antarctic Ice Sheet
because it's talking about the Antarctic
Ice Sheet on its own and not the one in
Greenland which is melting the study was
focused on a specific part of East
Antarctica which most climatologists
agree is growing the question has been
how much and whether this offsets the
overall losses in West Antarctica which
is melting and whether Antarctica
overall is losing or gaining ice linked
in the description is a really
interesting breakdown by Shannon Hall
for Scientific American
nopal not the blog section an actual
article exploring why other
climatologists disagree with this
particular study's findings the study
calculated the height of glaciers using
methods which other scientists have
argued is less accurate than other
available ones which presents a danger
of the results having been thrown off
and furthermore the study assumes that
the height increases all ice whereas
others would contend it is largely or
partly snowfall which is a whole lot
less water other studies using different
techniques conclude a much smaller
increase which means the net chain
in Antarctica would be a loss and not a
gain in ice in other words Crowder found
basically the one study that contends
that the mass gain exceeds the losses
elsewhere in Antarctica not net in terms
of all the ice sheets just in Antarctica
and when oh that's it the one that's the
one proof but tons of people disagree
about this and they have pretty good
reasons to I highly recommend you read
the article for yourself or I mean you
could even read more than one thing
before coming to a conclusion I could
spend an hour on this paper and maybe
one day I will let me know in the
comments
but we're pressed for time so I will
point out that the main author of that
paper is not just NASA how about NASA
more than NASA work on things individual
people with names do the may north of
the paper J's wall-e was interviewed in
the Scientific American and he had this
to say I'm actually gonna read this in
voiceover cuz I forgot to write it in my
notes when our paper came out I was very
careful to emphasize that this is in no
way contradictory to the findings of the
IPCC report all conclusions that climate
change is a serious problem that we need
to do something about even if as Wally's
paper is 100 percent accurate which many
of his associates have reasonable
reasons to say is not correct but even
if we're still net losing far more ice
through the other sheets and the author
of the paper believes that climate
change is in fact happening he just
thinks it hasn't started happening in
Antarctica yet and that actually does
make some sense the last thing to start
melting would be the coldest place in
the world right I just realized that I
don't know if it's actually the coldest
place pretend I said of one of the most
coldest places oh I'm gonna weasel my
way out of all of my mistakes oh I
learned it from watching you Steve
Crowder's website is just full of this
[__] the website is largely very short
articles about how a OC is a demon or
healthcare is communism or women's
bodily autonomy is basically the Boxer
Rebellion usually ending in links to
whatever video he did lately that's
tangentially related to the subject the
articles themselves are authored by the
site's editor Courtney Kerr car
hope is not Kirchhoff I could check how
to pronounce her name you know do basic
research but I feel in the spirit of
things I should just not [__] bother
one particular article that interests me
is this one from March this year
climate change fray or melting glacier
is growing again the article is the
usual waffle about how everything's
always changing and therefore climate
change isn't a threat or something but
the point it's dancing around is that a
glacier that has been melting in the
past is currently growing then there's
another couple paragraphs of needless
editorializing about how this proves
there's nothing wrong with the climate
claiming that the melting was caused by
human action is wrong because it's not
melting any more weird pontificating
about big government wanting to control
people's lives and a gift from Zoolander
in other words it's the most educated
piece of conservative journalism I've
seen all year hey it's from a guy h1 we
got here two things about this interest
me firstly just want to point out that
there's no mention of Greenland in
Crowder's website or in his videos at
all until the exact instant they think
they can find a mention of it that
proves what they think is happening
secondly even though they think they
finally found proof that things are
better in Greenland it still just thinly
disguised bullshit's the problem is the
impression that Crowder and his website
want to give here's a graph of the mass
of Greenland's ice sheets from late 2016
to January 2017 see just like she said
it's just a natural ebb and flow
sometimes ice melts but it comes back
see it's almost gained back all of the
ice that it melted in the same time it's
fine but that's a weirdly specific span
of time for someone to talk about isn't
it why would they just show you that I
mean time goes back a little bit further
than that doesn't it let's zoom out a
little bit further to say 2002
[Music]
oh I forgot these people are [__]
liars ice sheets regaining mass in the
colder parts of the year isn't
unexpected and is in fact part of the
process unfortunately not all the melted
ice comes back the news piece is about
one glacier doing better than expected
but this doesn't offset the clear
general trend if you were to draw a line
here and pretend you'd found evidence
the sheets were growing back as fast as
they've been melting you would be doing
a lie
Courtney is doing a version of that
while also pretending one glacier
disproves a wider trend that's been
documented for decades the glacier is
growing about as quickly as it was
shrinking oh my god the word about is
doing some [__] legwork there isn't
it Courtney every single time it's
documented that an ice sheet or a
glacier actually gains in size there's
always a conservative or some bloggers
willing to point out and go look that
proves there's not a problem look at
this and only this the science was lies
when the point isn't that sometimes
there's more ice than there was before
or sometimes some of it comes back the
point is that on the whole there's less
of it we're losing more than we're
gaining one glacier is not an entire ice
sheet it's not unexpected that ice
sheets grow and the clock on how big ice
sheets used to be didn't start six
months ago if everything's proceeding as
normal where did all this [__] water
come from Courtney so here's the thing
let's think about this now Crowder was
wrong for a variety of reasons one of
which was so simple that all you had to
do was point out that there's more than
one Ice Sheet the one on his website is
debunked by zooming out on a graph
nothing I've pointed out here is special
or unique like I said this stuff is
obvious to anyone who's willing to read
a paper for themselves or do almost any
kind of critical thinking or
fact-checking what I want to draw
attention to here is this obvious 'no
sit self because if crowdy cares about
science and facts and reason and truth
etc etc blah blah blah
how did crowd amidst
yes I think it would be a mistake to
interpret this as pure ignorance a much
better explanation is that Crowder's
business model has nothing to do with
finding the truth or rational discourse
or raising anyone's consciousness his
business model is about serving a
demographic of conservative people who
already feel a certain way about the
world and the product he's selling is
ideology Crowder's work isn't about
having a real debate or debunking the
science it's making an audience that
thinks climate change is fake feel like
they have a good reason to believe that
crowd has audiences people who want
their pre-existing beliefs validated
they don't actually want the truth they
want to feel like what they already
think is the truth and this it turns out
is a profitable business model not just
in terms of the ad revenue from the
viewers you'll get when you're telling
an audience what they want to be told
and how smart they are for wanting to be
told it but also in terms of
merchandising Crowder doesn't sell brain
pills yet he sells a mug to drink them
out of you-know-whats genius as well you
can't actually just [__] buy the mug
like on his store no it still is just
you know the [__] shittiest merch
ever we had to discount the socialism
baby onesie our warehouse is full of one
sees that no one would ever buy if you
want to get into Crowder's hashtag mug
club crowded as a daily show for blaze
TV basically Netflix for conservatives
and they charge a subscription of 99
dollars a year but if you do it through
Crowder's website they send you this mug
made in China
so the mug costs $99 you can't actually
buy the mug you cannot buy the mug you
you have this 99 and this is the point
really Crowder makes a decent living not
having to do research and instead
serving an audience a piping-hot daily
serving of confirmation of their beliefs
which they eat up uncritically because
the point isn't learning its reassurance
that they were already right and then
they all take a sip in unison from the
most expensive utensil they'll ever own
which they bought specifically to signal
that they support a reason man and
taking back the media is crowded just
mad that Fox News dropped him from the
network crowd as duplicitous falsehoods
works
typically because the audience wants to
believe them not because they're
ignorant but because they want to be
Crowder's specific grift is in using the
right power words truth logic
rationality reason science to mask this
deliberate ignorance in a Technicolor
Dreamcoat of intellect so the incredibly
poor work in his videos is because they
know these people will eat it up and
trust that they did the research for
them so they don't have to the ignorance
of the audience occurs because they're
only ever fed this stuff by their
favorite conservative news websites and
youtubers and influences so they never
have to stop and look at the real facts
they're convinced they are they just
further down a chain designed to only
feed them fact that they want once
you're wired into the conservative echo
chamber follow conservative thinkers on
Facebook and YouTube and Twitter and
read their news websites and buy their
mugs and pills and books you will only
ever come into contact with facts and
information that happens to confirm your
worldview and we can see here just how
easy it is to take a very specific thing
that seems to confirm it abstract away
any inconvenient truths and then
presented as proof that you were already
right and very smart and rational for
believing it too the work is shoddy and
the holes that poorly wallpapered over
with scare mongering about the dangers
of big government me know like not
because they're genuinely trying to
convince outsiders to change their minds
is to try and protect the insiders from
having to change their minds if John
Kerry and Alexandria calcio Cortes
Earth's climate change archangels then
just let the [__] burn ah
finally someone partaking in rational
discourse these people need to be taken
seriously they have to invent a world
where the problems that conservatism
couldn't solve simply aren't really
there and frankly I support this way of
thinking I would hate to have to live in
the same world as horses weird smug
little pricks with their eyes and teeth
but I've done some research and it turns
out that horse
don't exist yay
[Music]
man the scale of the problem is so big
isn't it I can see why the
climatologists I know try not to bring
the topic up too much in conversation
it's just depressing especially if you
agree with them isn't it thinking about
the scope of the problem a lot of
sweeping changes will have to be made
very quickly on a large scale or will be
stuck in an uphill battle against the
climate in the future and given that we
can't really personally bring about many
of those changes on our own what's
really left to do on planet earth other
than wait to see what happens and run
out the clock eating Nutella straight
out of the jar well you could do that
and maybe sometimes you should but
Nutella is a sometimes food and there
are some things you can do about climate
change if you'd like to try cleaning it
Wayne I'd only get on my hands later if
I pick it up again linked in the
description is a great video by Simon
Clark a science youtuber getting a PhD
in climate physics talking about what we
ought to be looking into to deal with
climate change his suggestions take
place on the level of what sources we
use for power and changes in legislation
of businesses whose actions directly
affect the climate I think this is
important to recognize because I find a
lot of people tend to embrace more
personal solutions like driving a more
efficient car or using public transport
or going vegan and so on and it has to
be acknowledged that these personal
choices aren't the primary driver of
climate problems in the first place the
wider policies are it's very easy to
give in to the idea that the solution
lies in you reducing your personal
emissions to create a sense of control
and doing your part for this big and
scary thing but that effort maybe ought
to be spent fighting to get the big
things done getting people thinking and
providing support for meaningful changes
basically just don't make it personal
climate change isn't your fault it's the
Koch brothers fault
hey Mortimer what happened to my you
know who else has lots of information
about the environment this video sponsor
curiosity stream they've recently
expanded their library and there's more
than 2400 titles there now
including climate a few degrees less
which breaks down the carbon cost of
many key industries and what can be done
to reduce them and outlines the efforts
of the deep decarbonisation pathways
project a global consortium whose goal
is to prevent future climate crisis
access to curiosity stream starts at two
dollars ninety nine a month which is
less than a jar of Nutella will cost you
and significantly better for your health
but if you sign up at curiosity stream
calm slash h-bomb a guy and who's a
trauma guy is the promo code the first
31 days are free so you could watch
documentaries and have a jar of Nutella
although you shouldn't eat Nutella out
of the jar that was actually really bad
for you down then again I'm I can't
criticize people's life choices there's
literally two empty eggshells from some
soft-boiled eggs I had like two days ago
just sitting on my desk directly under
my mic like seriously listen I just
broke an eggshell in my hand there's
just there on my desk so look there's
some good documentary self I need to go
wash my dishes I'm sorry speaking of
being a morally compromised corporate
shill it's time to talk about Patrick
Moore Patrick Moore is a Canadian
activist and environmentalist Moore was
the leader of Greenpeace Canada for
about nine years
Moore is also in the climate denial game
but he's playing it on nightmare mode
his specific stance is that carbon
dioxide levels are affected by humans
but that an increase in co2 is actually
great co2 is what plants crave after all
co2 is the most important nutrient for
all life on Earth so we've been skipping
along on top of this low point for co2
for a long time now and it's about time
somebody did something about it and so
what if sea levels rise don't you know
that humans are mostly water we needed
to live it's good for us drink up the
[__]
it's like Carlin said the reason people
came into existence is because the earth
wants plastic oh my god he's doing
George Carlin but not for a joke
maybe the people the reason people came
into existence is because the atmosphere
wants a little more carbon dioxide for
the plants who knows
if only there were people whose job was
to find out oh you think those people
are paid shills who are just pretending
it might be caused by humans for money
this is NASA at its worst they do good
things too but they also collect over a
billion dollars in climate change
research money from the federal
government in the United States and they
do this co2 controls earth's temperature
to keep getting that funding here he is
complaining about a comedy sketch Bill
Nye did lately on the basis that he's
being so mean about co2 he's demonizing
Urim hurting its fee wins
has anyone noticed the fire extinguisher
on the table as the earth burns many
fire extinguishers are filled with see
her too the science guy could have put
the fire out with carbon dioxide which
he wrongly demonize the cause of the
fire I hate to break it to you mr. more
but Bill Nye was employing an
experimental technique some people might
not have heard of before called her a
visual metaphor I'm not sure if people
have noticed but this isn't actually
literally happening to the planet the
earth isn't actually on fire what's
actually happening is co2 is
contributing to trapping more heat in
the atmosphere causing a warming effect
which is tough to represent visually
when a fire extinguisher is used the co2
doesn't actually react with the fire
directly to stop it from being fire it
actually displaces the oxygen that keeps
the fire going which helps extinguish it
with the secondary effect that the co2
in the pressurized container is colder
than room temperature and therefore the
co2 is not a magic turned fire off gas
having more in the atmosphere doesn't
mean fires will go out easier
you're wrong h-bomb Earl I you can't
have too much of something if it's good
for you now watch as I consume enough
brain force to surpass even Ben
Shapiro's power no reasonable list bear
don't your body can't take that much
alertness and free thinking at the end
of the clip bill tries to blow
the fire out but did you know that
breath also contains carbon dioxide
checkmate globe heads I just proved oh
no he died from having too much IQ rest
in peace if you didn't like that
character he's dead he's gone now since
quitting Greenpeace over differences in
policy and Greenpeace have done
everything they can to distance
themselves from him since he left Moore
has become a consultant for businesses
that get a bad rap from environmental
organizations as a former hire up at
Greenpeace Moore's a great cat for these
industries it's a compelling narrative
here's someone who really did care about
the planet but he's come out against the
people who say were being unethical and
saying that actually were good so we
must be Steven Crowder's second and
third most popular videos about the
climate ER interviews with more he's
also gone on Prager you as well to list
off his regular talking points but in an
even more stilted manner I think
something's wrong with Prager use
teleprompter this keeps happening when
people go on it's just a real get you
know he's the guy he's the guy from
Greenpeace and he says got a warming's
not real we got him we just have to keep
quoting him it's like we're right we
don't have to check or anything they
don't drag this guy on to everything
because he's right because he's not they
drag him on because they can say
Greenpeace founder debunks climate in
their video titles and everyone who
wants to believe this can go oh it
sounds about right and you know not
actually check what he's saying or
anything which is all wrong basically
everything he says about the climate can
be debunked if you question it but no
one watching this is going to are they
they think these people have already
done it for them more positions himself
as the sensible environmentalist you
know not like those senseless ones that
accept the science and for some reason
think we should do something about it I
suppose it is sensible in one sense of
the word to take money from big
companies to try to rehabilitate their
image
I'm sure the Koch brothers pay very well
I hate to sound like I'm beating a dead
halt dog here but I wasn't joking when I
said that this talk here is at the
Heartland Institute a conservative and
libertarian think-tank dedicated mostly
to opposing the
outlook on climate change it receives a
very large portion of its funding from
the Koch foundation an organization
founded and run by the Koch brothers -
incredibly wealthy ultra billionaire oil
barons who have spent literally decades
spreading this kind of misinformation
it's almost as if this whole thing is
just a bunch of rich people trying to
hold on to their money by it's paying to
spread lies by the way that one of the
main donors to Prager you in the Rubin
report what a surprise it's actually
pretty clear why Moore's imagination
immediately goes to being paid to
support a scientific conclusion after
all that is what he's doing Patrick
Moore's denialism is Ron and obviously
Ron because of course it is and his
corporate cheerleading is just immoral
but he goes one step further sometimes
in a way that I find special you see
with denialism and with general anti
science fakery there's a line that you
can't cross there's a reason why a lot
of these people say things like oh well
you know I I'm not an expert but so
here's my take on the climate change
issue on the climate change issue I'm
not gonna pretend that I'm an expert in
in reading the studies don't worry Ben
you didn't have to volunteer that
information it was already obvious this
tacit admission of potential ignorance
is an important part of the trickery
because if you claimed to actually know
what you were talking about it would
become crystal clear you were
deliberately lying when it turned out
you were so obviously wrong but if you
say you're an amateur
there's deniability if Shapiro says
something wrong well like he said he
hadn't looked that hard into it and he's
not an expert so for all you know he
wasn't lying my purpose here is not at
all to pretend to be a scientist but to
get you the viewer to think about real
science I'm not pretending to be a
scientist I just want you to have a
think about the one and only one piece
of evidence I'm going to show you with
[__] even with ridiculous [__]
even with obvious lies there is a line
I'm establishing this because in 2014
Patrick Moore tripped on his own dick
and fell all the way through the line
and onto a live rail and electrocuted
himself metaphorically of course
I'm sure a lot of you know what I'm
referring to here it's the thing Patrick
Moore is known for more than anything
now I'm referring of course to the weed
killer incident okay so some background
here there's a product called roundup
which was originally produced by
Monsanto but has later been acquired by
Bayer it's based on a chemical called
glyphosate a chemical monsanto
discovered and patented and it's the
most used herbicide in the United States
and on the planet for that matter
however there is some evidence that
roundup causes cancer if you come into
heavy repeated contact with it there
isn't evidence to my knowledge that
crops treated with it become dangerous
to eat or that limited domestic use is
dangerous in this regard but farmers who
use it in large amounts and other
agricultural workers like groundskeepers
have an increased likelihood to be
diagnosed with non-hodgkins lymphoma a
form of blood cancer
roundups current owners Bayer have
recently been ordered to pay billions of
dollars in damages after it was found
roundup had failed to inform customers
of the potential risks of using their
product over 300 more federal lawsuits
have been filed and Costco recently
discontinued selling roundup it was also
banned in France in January while all of
these allegations were happening French
journalist Paul Moreira asked more about
the safety and potential risks of
glyphosate and more in an attempt to
defend the herbicide said this do not
believe that glyphosate in Argentina is
causing increases in cancer you can
drink a whole quart of it and it won't
hurt you now obviously you shouldn't
drink weedkiller
this was either a mistake or a lie but
Moreira had a sense of humor and asked
him if he would like to drink some if
you want to drink some we have some here
I'd be happy to actually but then click
you can see it in his eyes you can see
him realize he's taken the lie to
support the big corporation a bit too
far and he just said he'd be happy to
drink weedkiller
what follows is I feel one of the most
informative clips about the ideology
that underpins denialism in history I'd
be happy to actually yeah not not really
but not really I know it wouldn't hurt
me if you say so I'm not stupid
ok so you you you know but I know this
dangerous you know people try to commit
suicide
they'll fairly regularly tell the truth
it's not dangerous to humans no no not
so are you ready to drink one glass of
no I'm not an idiot
this is a funny clip and it was shared
widely when it happened
although more is often credited as a
monsanto lobbyist which isn't true a
Monsanto spokesperson denies him ever
having been a paid lobbyist but his
cheerleading for a big company and his
being mistaken for a lobbyist is
unsurprising when in the almost thirty
years since he left Greenpeace he makes
his living lobbying for companies like
Monsanto and leveraging his former
Greenpeace status I mean he named his
company green spirit for Sobek sake but
this clip makes it clearer than anywhere
else that beneath the veneer of just
being skeptical of the scientists and
their agendas lies people whose job is
not at all related to finding or sharing
the truth more realized he'd [__] up
and immediately fled the interview think
about the disconnect as he flicked
between his defense of a company's
product claiming it was safe to drink
and he'd be happy to and his rational
brain the brain that actually knows the
truth his understanding that drinking it
might actually be really bad and he
shouldn't take that risk but he
accidentally took that extra step said
he would be happy to and now has to
argue that he would love to drink some
but he won't because he's not stupid
climate denialism isn't just a bunch of
people who are wrong it's a bunch of
people being paid to be wrong on purpose
to deliberately spread doubt of the
truth mislead the people who are
honestly trying to be skeptical and
confirm the beliefs of the ignorant who
want to pretend they're skeptical and
ultimately this contributes to
perpetuating the profits of a few rich
individuals who do not want to be made
to reduce their profits or risk being
held accountable for the effect they're
profiteering is having on the world we
live on at the expense of that world to
pretend that there is a real legitimate
non astroturfed
debate about whether climate change is
caused by humans and represents a
potential threat is to give into
propaganda from people who are lying and
know they're lying and are so used to
lying that they will tell you it's safe
to drink a weed killer that might be
giving the farmers who work with it
cancer they will tell you that being
alarmed
about a credible threat to humanity's
future makes you an alarmist they will
lie to your [__] face while telling
you they're the true warriors of science
and logic something can still be done
about the climate it simply requires
dispelling these corporate lies seeing
past the people selling you the chance
to pretend you know better than
scientists agitating for real political
change and advocating for a culture that
actually accepts science actually
employs reason and skepticism and
doesn't just pretend they're magic words
that can be used to make you sound
clever almost everyone thinks science
and facts and logic and truth are great
we all agree that those words are lovely
and mean good things the problem is a
lot of people set out to prove those
things are on their side instead of
following those things where they lead
it's very easy to be misled by rhetoric
into thinking that one idea is more
reasonable than another and it's even
easier to find someone who's willing to
tell you that what you think right now
is already the reasonable thing that
doesn't make you actually right though
I'm not a very smart person and this
isn't a self-deprecating joke I'm doing
here everyone who thinks Dark Souls 2 is
bad can attest to this already I
remember once I went to mail a letter
and accidentally put the sunglasses in
my other hand into the mailbox and I
just tried to quietly erase the memory
of watching the sunglasses fade out of
view and then drop from my hands as at
the very last moment my brain went hang
on I'm saying this because while humans
can be very smart about some things in
specific sometimes humans are in general
very bad about a lot of things it's very
easy to look at a horizon and say well
it looks flat to me or to discount the
work of scientists because well it just
looks a different way to you and it's
very easy to dismiss anyone who might be
an authority on an issue as well an
argument from Authority after all a PhD
is just a piece of paper it doesn't
necessarily mean what that person says
is right and you would be right to
assume that but I also think it's wrong
to use that as a deliberate strategy to
avoid dealing with the fact that
sometimes people do know better
knew about complex issues if you find it
easy to discount hundreds of people's
and life's work because you reckon you
know better based on one paper you've
read then you might as well have put
your brain in the mailbox so it turns
out there's an advantage to being as
rubbish as me it means you have to put
effort into learning things and develop
a respect and appreciation for the
people who put so much time into
learning something and an understanding
that maybe they do know more than you
when I find myself disagreeing with the
conclusions of a scientist I asked
myself what they might know that I don't
and go look for that and see if that
changes my mind and when I find a
scientist that I happen to find
agreeable I immediately think well if
they think like I do then well
something's up let's see what the others
have to say and why they might think
they're wrong and what their reasons are
the true test of skepticism isn't in
finding ways to debunk your opponents or
change anyone else's mind it's in
finding ways to understand when you are
wrong and learn to change your mind
sometimes that's easier than others for
example in this instance a lot of people
who currently deny climate change can
freely admit that they were lied to they
were misled by people who only showed
some facts that appear to confirm their
beliefs they hadn't really thought that
hard about her in fact their thinking
had basically been done for them they'd
given over the thinking to someone else
so it turned out they couldn't trust and
now they can think for themselves and
maybe come to different conclusions I
changed a lot the day I realized that
there are people out there who make a
living making you feel good for
believing what they tell you and frankly
it gives me hope that that happened to
me because I know I'm a foolish person
and if I can learn and grow and change
then there's hope for all of us and I
believe that even you yes you could one
day come to accept the truth that horses
don't exist that's what this video is
about goodbye